## Architectural decisions taken during the development of Parcelec MVP

Date: 02/03/2025

## Final tech stack

- Backend: _Rust_ with _tokio_ and _axum_. No database/persistence layer, all
  state is kept in memory.
  - Use an actor based approach, with message passing handled by tokio sync
    primitives (mpsc, watch, oneshot).
- Frontend: _Svelte_ with Typescript, mobile first design. Communication with
  the backend is done via websockets (schema and validation done with _zod_).
  - Had to use SvelteKit with the `static` adapter to have basic routing and
    still serve static files using an nginx container.
  - Used _Tailwindcss_ and _daisy-ui_ for styling. Very happy with the result
    and speed of development.
  - Vaguely followed an atomic design approach. Used storybook initially, but
    ditched it as I found it cumbersome to use with Svelte components since you
    have to write a wrapper component in a separate file to have working
    components' state in your stories.
- Hosting: Docker stack on a VPS + CI/CD using Github Actions. _Traefik_ for the
  reverse proxy because it handles certificates generation and renewal
  automatically, and is easy to integrate with Docker using annotations on the
  services.
  - As the Traefik config is done from this repo's docker stack, not clear how i
    would add another deployment from a different project to the same VPS.

## App state and use of snapshots

When the app state (market or player's plant) changes, we send a full snapshot
of the state to the players. It's obviously not optimal as only a subset of the
state may have changed since the last update, hence a lot a duplicated data are
sent to clients. But in regard to the low number of updates expected from a
typical game of Parcelec, this tradeoff seems acceptable as it simplifies a lot
the state management, both on the server and client side, by not having to keep
track of updates.

## Lack of persistence layer

The app does not use any persistence layer, all data lives in memory and is lost
if the containers is killed or restarts. This is acceptable as players do not
persist once a game is finished - there is no player accounts. This limits the
app's complexity, and keeps the friction to start a game low from the players'
point of view : you join a game with a temporary username, without needing an
email or account.

If persistence was needed in the future an interesting avenue would be to use
event sourcing as events are already explicit from the point of view of the
game, market and stack actors. This would allow a detailed post-analysis of
players actions for instance.

## Using a fully fledge frontend framework

Even if Svelte feels simple enough to use - since we mostly write HTML-like
code, it still feels a bit overkill, especially having to use Sveltekit to have
some form of advanced routing. I found that there is a lot a duplication when it
comes to the schemas used to communicate between the client and the backend code
(see
[client/src/lib/message.ts](https://github.com/thomas-god/parcelec/blob/main/client/src/lib/message.ts)).
Given that both the client code and the backend are already strongly coupled
(and provided there is no will to open the backend's API), I'm curious to see
how using an approach like [htmx](https://htmx.org/) would be for this use-case.
