## Consumption and generation forecasts

Date: 13/04/2025

## Why forecasts are important

Dealing with uncertainties is a key aspect of a utility job as consumption and
some generation (like renewable sources) cannot be known in advance. It is
possible to forecast them, but there will always be some forecasting error. That
means you cannot optimize a delivery period is isolation, as your current
actions might have consequences in next delivery periods.

## Goals for the forecasts in the game

Implementing forecasts as close to reality would probably introduce too much
complexity in the game. Still we want the forecasts in the game to address the
following goals:

- encourage players to account for next periods when optimizing the current
  period,
- expose players to the concept of uncertainty,
- introduce some replayability between games.

## Forecasts implementation

A forecast value for a given target delivery period is implemented as
`value +/- deviation`, meaning the actual value will be somewhere in the range
`[value - deviation; value + deviation]`.

The deviation **decreases with the distance from the target delivery period**,
as forecasts generally improve the closer from the target period they are. When
decreasing the deviation, it is possible to generate a new value, as long as
**the new range is included in the previous range**. This make sure that
forecasts are converging and do not make the game too punishing for the players.

For instance if the previous forecast is 500 +/- 100 MW and the new deviation is
75 MW, the new value can be either 475 MW, 500 MW or 525 MM (assuming a 25 MW
step).

The actual value is then randomly selected within the range of the last forecast
for this delivery period.

All forecasts and values are generated when initializing a given plant or
consumers object. This means forecasts and actual values differ from player to
player within the same game.

## Possible future features

- although we made sure the forecasts were always converging so that the game
  remains fair for players, we could introduce rare events were a forecast is
  not within the range of the previous forecast to force player to adapt to
  unexpected event.
- forecasts across players are completely decorrelated, which might not be
  realistic for sources like solar generation: one player could have maximum
  generation while another has none. We could introduce a global signal to
  correlate forecasts and values of the same source.
- while the optimization of the current delivery period is one option for
  addressing the uncertainty in the game, another one would be being able to use
  the market for other delivery periods than the current one, so that one's can
  buy or sell energy in advance, based on its forecasted imbalance.
